---
title:  "A 'solveit' agent guides a coding agent"
date: 2025-01-19
categories: agents
---
The solveit course, platform, and the How to Solve It book have changed my view of coding.   

---

##### A 'solveit' agent

One way to accomplish a coding goal is to have a coding agent guided by a 'solveit' agent.   

The solveit agent knows how to solve problems, and helps the coding agent develop the tools, context, and sub-problems needed for the solution.

To evaluate a (solveit agent, coding agent) pair, we evaluate the progress of a coding agent solving a problem.

To make this more concrete, here's a few assumptions: 

- Our problem-to-find is "source code that solves the problem", and is broken into sub-problems which are also source code.
- Our coding agent starts without the knowledge, context, tools necessary to solve the problem.
- Our coding agent works with 'reasoning units' -- small pieces of code or text.   For solveit platform, these are cells.  For aider, these are commits.
- A solution to a problem-to-find involves:
  - All 4 phases of the How to Solve It framework
  - A sequence of reasoning units that lead to the solution

##### example code (not functional)

At a high level, our units of operation are:

```python
class ProblemToFind(BaseModel):
    parent: Optional['ProblemToFind'] = None
    description: str
    unknown: str
    data: str
    condition: str

class ReasoningUnit(BaseModel):
    problem_to_find:  ProblemToFind
    text: Optional[str] = None  # guidance for reasoning agent
    code: Optional[str] = None  # source code
    solveit_tags: Set[Literal['Understanding the Problem', 'Devising a Plan', 'Carrying Out the Plan', 'Looking Back']]
    heuristic_tags: Set[Literal['Analogy', 'Auxiliary Elements', ... ]]
```

In the end, we have a tree of problem-to-find, each associated with a sequence of reasoning units.

The reasoning units are created through the cooperation between the solveit agent and the coding agent -- this builds the context and tools that result in the sequence that gives the solution.

---

This is really speculative, but I feel this approach would have two benefits:

- increase the complexity of solvable problems for less capable agents (cheaper, faster)
- allow evaluation of solveit agent and coding agents

---

The solveit agent is designed in the Polya book, and includes mental model of student (the coding agent) and progress measurements against problem-to-find hierarchy.

The coding agent that I'd like to try is designed in Hadamard book (vocabulary from there), using the proper-conscious and fringe-conscious model for exploring and evaluating solution paths.

The solution paths branch off into the fringe-conscious, with an aesthetic measurement bring path into proper-conscious.  In terms of solveit dialogue this is trying several sequences of cells, keeping the 'best' according to the progress measurement on the problem-to-find.

  
